# README

## Overview

This project contains our final submission for the assignment. The code is designed to compute the minima and maxima of a 3D figure using MPI parallel I/O. The implementation is provided in a single source file (`src.c`), as per the assignment instructions.

The zip file includes:

1. `data_files/` – Datasets provided in the assignment
2. `job_files/` – SLURM job files for each individual test case
3. `Outputs/` – Sample outputs from when the code was executed
4. `src.c` – Complete implementation of the parallel read code
5. `job.sh` – Master script to run all job files in sequence
6. `Report.pdf` – Detailed report on our implementation and results

## How to Run

To test the code on the CDAC Param Rudra system:

1. **Unzip** the archive.
2. **Compile** the source code:
   ```bash
   mpicc src.c
   ```
3. **Submit** the master job file:
   ```bash
   sbatch job.sh
   ```

This will execute all the test cases and create a directory `Latest_Outputs/`, which contains the results generated by `src.c` using the datasets.

## Optional

If you want to run an individual test case:

```bash
sbatch <job_file_of_corresponding_test_case>
```

Replace `<job_file_of_corresponding_test_case>` with the filename (e.g., `job_files/job_64_64_64_3_8.sh`).

## We have added plot code in the ipynb file named "plot_code.ipynb" to make the barplot similar to shown in our reports. We have reported final code times charts, as other analysis requires other code files and datasets, hence we have made single file. If needed we can show demo of other code approaches as well to see how their plots form (which are reported in report)

## the same code in "plot_code.ipynb" is set in ""plot_code.py" also to make a plot png file named "Figure_plot_sample.png" for your reference. I am uploading the png also for reference. 

## to run the script, open the ipynb file in python environment and run the cell. Or you can also use the py script to run. 
# use command 
python3 plot_code.py 
# to make the plot.
